[WIP] `async` and `.await` chapter (#3909)
rust-lang/book: src/ch17-02-concurrency-with-async.md

finish.

<!-- Not extracting output because changes to this output aren't significant;
the changes are likely to be due to the threads running differently rather than
changes in the compiler -->

```text
hi number 1 from the second task!
hi number 1 from the first task!
hi number 2 from the first task!
hi number 2 from the second task!
hi number 3 from the first task!
hi number 3 from the second task!
hi number 4 from the first task!
hi number 4 from the second task!
hi number 5 from the first task!
hi number 6 from the first task!
hi number 7 from the first task!
hi number 8 from the first task!
hi number 9 from the first task!
```

So far, it looks like async and threads give us the same basic outcomes, just
with different syntax: using `.await` instead of calling `join` on the join
handle, and awaiting the `sleep` calls.

The bigger difference is that we did not need to spawn another operating system
thread to do this. In fact, we do not even a task here. Given that async blocks
compile to anonymous futures, we can put each loop in an async block and have
the runtime run them both to completion using `trpl::join`.

<!--

> We were able to get concurrency for just the cost of a task.

Reviewer: Dead text indeed! Eliminated. I was debating whether to keep it here, but i don’t think it adds something important at this particular juncture, and I hit the theme later. 👍🏼

Tasks have much faster startup time and use much less memory than an OS thread.
-->

> <Listing number="17-7" caption="Using `trpl::join` to await two anonymous futures" file-name="src/main.rs">

Reviewer: Ah, excellent point – I added some text about this.

hi number 2 from the second task!
hi number 3 from the first task!
hi number 3 from the second task!
hi number 4 from the first task!
hi number 4 from the second task!
hi number 5 from the first task!
hi number 6 from the first task!
hi number 7 from the first task!
hi number 8 from the first task!
hi number 9 from the first task!
```

Here, you will see the exact same order every time, which is very different from
what we saw with threads. That is because the `trpl::join` function is *fair*,
meaning it checks each future equally often, alternating between them, and never
lets one race ahead if the other is ready. With threads, the operating system
decides which thread to check and how long to let it run. With async Rust, the
runtime decides which future to check. (In practice, the details get complicated
because an async runtime might use operating system threads under the hood as
part of how it manages concurrency, so guaranteeing fairness can be more work
for a runtime—but it is still possible!) Runtimes do not have to guarantee
fairness for any given operation, and runtimes often offer different APIs to let
you choose whether you want fairness or not.

> Try some of these different variations on awaiting the futures and see what they

Author: Love this invitation to experiment 👍🏻

do:

* Remove the async block from around either or both of the loops.
* Await each async block immediately after defining it.
* Wrap only the first loop in an async block, and await the resulting future
  after the body of second loop.

For an extra challenge, see if you can figure out what the output will be in
each case *before* running the code!

### Message Passing

Sharing data between futures will also be familiar: we will use message passing,

> again, but this with async versions of the types and functions.

Reviewer: I added a bit of explanatory text to flag up that we’re doing things differently than in ch. 16 here, and noted explicitly the lack of concurrency until we add the multiple async blocks. As you noticed below, I was building up to a clear mental model around await points and async blocks, and in particular trying to drill home that just having `.await` does *not* automatically make things async—but I think it was easy to miss that, so I have no made it clearer throughout (in changes I will push in a bit!). Thank you!

> transition between sync and async code. However, *within* this block, the
> `.await` does not block further operations—as we will see!

It is hard to see the effect of async in Listing 17-8, though, since the message
will arrive right away! Let’s go ahead and send a whole series of messages, and
sleep in between them, as shown in Listing 17-9:

<Listing number="17-9" caption="Sending and receiving multiple messages over the async channel and sleeping with an `.await` between each message" file-name="src/main.rs">

```rust
{{#rustdoc_include ../listings/ch17-async-await/listing-17-09/src/main.rs:many-messages}}
```

</Listing>

In addition to sending the messages, we need to receive them. In this case, we
could do that manually, by just doing `rx.recv().await` four times, because we
know how many messages are coming in. In the real world, though, we will
generally be waiting on some *unknown* number of messages. In that case, we need
to keep waiting until we determine that there are no more messages.

That sounds like a good job for a loop! In synchronous code, we might use a
`for` loop to process a sequence of items, regardless of how many items are in

> the loop. However, Rust does not yet have a way to write a `for` loop over an

Author: I think rather than saying "we might use a `for` loop", this would be a great place to say "In Listing 16-10, in synchronous code, we used a `for` loop to process all the items received from the channel". I like this way of pointing out the differences between async code and iterators!

*asynchronous* series of items. Instead, we need to use a new kind of loop we
haven’t seen before, the `while let` conditional loop. A `while let` loop is the
loop version of the `if let` construct we saw back in Chapter 6. It continues as

> long as the condition it relies on is true.

Author: Nit: it's not really that the condition in a `while let` is true, it's that the pattern specified by the `while let` continues to match the value.

<!-- TODO: update text in ch. 19 to account for our having introduced this. -->

The `rx.recv()` call produces a `Future`, which we await. While waiting on
messages to arrive, the future will produce `Poll::Pending`, so the runtime will
pause it until it is time to check it again. Once a message arrives, `rx.recv()`
will respond with `Poll::Ready(Some(message))`. When the channel closes,
`rx.recv()` will respond with `Poll::Ready(None)` to indicate that there are no
more values, and we should stop polling—that is, stop awaiting.

The `while let` loop pulls all of this together. If the result of calling
`rx.recv().await` is `Some(message)`, we get access to the message and we can
use it in the loop body, just like we could with `if let`. If the result is
`None`, the loop ends. Every time the loop completes, it hits the await point
again, so the runtime pauses it again until another message arrives.

> The code now successfully sends and receives all of the messages. Unfortunately,
> there are still a couple problems. For one thing, the messages do not arrive at
> half-second intervals. They arrive all at once, two seconds (2,000 milliseconds)
> after we start the program. For another, this program also never stops! You will
> need to shut it down using <span class="keystroke">ctrl-c</span>.

Author: The first time i skimmed "this program also never stops" i thought it would be _printing_ stuff forever, and I was surprised because I didn't think it would do that! But that's not what you meant-- you meant it was sitting there waiting for more values. 

So what do you think about instead saying something like:

```suggestion
The code now successfully sends and receives all of the messages. Unfortunately,
there are still a couple problems. For one thing, the messages do not arrive at
half-second intervals. They arrive all at once, two seconds (2,000 milliseconds)
after we start the program. For another, this program also never exits, instead waiting forever for new messages! You will
need to shut it down using <span class="keystroke">ctrl-c</span>.
```

Reviewer: Ah, “exits” is way better than “stops” here, and the extra phrase to clarify that it just keeps waiting helps a ton. Incorporating directly into my edits!

Let’s start by understanding why the messages all come in at once after the full
delay, rather than coming in with delays in between each one. Within a given
async block, the order that `.await` keywords appear in the code is also the

> order they happen when running the program.

Author: ohhhhhhhh is THIS why you didn't make this example like 16-8??? if so, that's clever-- but readers might be wondering why (or maybe that's just me, i dunno). Maybe back at listing 17-8 we could address this somehow?

There is only one async block in Listing 17-9, so everything in it runs
linearly. All the `tx.send` calls happen, interspersed with all of the
`trpl::sleep` calls and their associated await points. Only then does the `while
let` loop get to go through any of the `.await` points on the `recv` calls.

> To get the behavior we want, where the sleep delay happens between receiving

Reviewer: Ah, good call—this comment made me realize that although I hit this point, I hit it *substantially* later and in a different context, so it would be easy for folks to miss the connection here. 👍🏼

blocks. Then the runtime can execute each of them separately using `trpl::join`,
just like in the counting example.

<Listing number="17-10" caption="Separating `send` and `recv` into their own `async` blocks and awaiting the futures for those blocks" file-name="src/main.rs">

```rust
{{#rustdoc_include ../listings/ch17-async-await/listing-17-10/src/main.rs:futures}}
```

</Listing>

With the updated code in Listing 17-10, the messages get printed at
500-millisecond intervals, rather than all in a rush after two seconds.

The program still never stops, because of the way `while let` loop interacts
with `trpl::join`:

* The future returned from `trpl::join` only completes once *both* futures
  passed to it have completed.
* The `tx` future completes once it finishes sleeping after sending the last
  message in `vals`.
* The `rx` future will not complete until the `while let` loop ends.
* The `while let` loop will not end until `rx.recv().await` produces `None`.
* The `rx.recv().await` will only return `None` once the other end of the
  channel is closed.
* The channel will only close if we call `rx.close()` or when the sender side,
  `tx`, is dropped.

> * We do not call `rx.close()` anywhere, and `tx` will not be dropped until the
>   async block ends.

Author: "the async block" is ambiguous 😕 I think it would be clearer as something like:

```suggestion
* We do not call `rx.close()` anywhere, and `tx` will not be dropped until the outermost
  async block given to `trpl::block_on` ends.
```

I do love this motivation of `move` and illustration of a possible pitfall though!!!
